# Copyright (c) 1995-2010 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

=pod

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Changes5 - backward incompatible changes in Date::Manip 5.xx

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This describes all backwards incompatible changes made to the
Date::Manip module in the 5.xx series of releases.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

For the most part, Date::Manip has remained backward compatible at
every release, but occasionally, a change is made which is backward
incompatible. These are documented here.  Major changes are marked
with asterisks.

=head1 VERSION 5.44

=over 4

=item B<(*) Recurrences revisited>

The behavior of some elements of recurrences changed. These included
making the week element (N) refer to the Nth occurrence of a day of the
week in the week, month, or year. It is now possible to look at the
3rd Friday of every month for example.

=item B<Changed %x format in UnixDate>

The %x format used to be equivalent to %D (%m/%d/%y), but it has
been modified to use the DateFormat config variable, so it may return
%d/%m/%y if a non-US DateFormat is specified.

=back

=head1 VERSION 5.41

=over 4

=item B<Changed path separator for VMS>

Since ":" is used in some VMS paths, it should not have been used as
the path separator.  It has been changed to a newline ("\n") character.

=item B<Delta_Format behavior changed>

The entire delta is exact if no month component is present (previously,
no year or month component could be present).

=back

=head1 VERSION 5.38

=over 4

=item B<Removed Date_DaysSince999>

The Date_DaysSince999 function (deprecated in 5.35) has been removed.

=back

=head1 VERSION 5.35

=over 4

=item B<Deprecated Date_DaysSince999>

In fixing support for the years 0001-0999, I rewrote Date_DaysSince999 to
be Date_DaysSince1BC.  The Date_DaysSince999 function will be removed.

=item B<(*) Added PathSep variable>

In order to better support Win32 platforms, I added the PathSep config
variable.  This will allow the use of paths such as "c:\date" on Win32
platforms.  Old config files on Win32 platforms (which were not working
correctly in many cases) may not work if they contain path information to
the personal config file.

=back

=head1 VERSION 5.34

=over 4

=item B<(*) All Date::Manip variables are no longer accessible>

Previously, Date::Manip variables were declared using a full package name.
Now, they are declared with the my() function.  This means that internal
variables are no longer accessible outside of the module.

=item B<Week interpretation in business mode deltas>

A business mode delta containing a week value used to be treated as 7 days.
A much more likely interpretation of a week is Monday to Monday, regardless
of holidays, so this is now the behavior.

=item B<%z UnixDate format>

The %z UnixDate format used to return the time zone abbreviation.  It now
returns it as a GMT offset (i.e. -0500).  %Z still returns the time zone
abbreviation.

=item B<Formats "22nd Sunday" returns the intuitive value>

The date "22nd Sunday" used to return the Sunday of the 22nd week of the
year (which could be the 21st, 22nd, or 23rd Sunday of the year depending
on how weeks were defined).  Now, it returns the 22nd Sunday of the year
regardless.

=item B<Separator in DD/YYmmm and mmmDD/YY formats no longer optional>

Previously, the date "Dec1065" would return Dec 10, 1965.  After adding
the YYYYmmm and mmmYYYY formats, this was no longer possible.  The separator
between DD and YY is no longer optional, so

   Dec1065     returns December 1, 1065
   Dec10/65    returns December 10, 1965

=item B<(*) Date_Cmp added>

This is not a backwards incompatibility... but is added to help prepare for
a future incompatibility.  In one of the next versions of Date::Manip, the
internal format of the date will change to include time zone information.
All date comparisons should be made using Date_Cmp (which currently does
nothing more than call the Perl "cmp" command, but which will important
when comparing dates that include the time zone).

=back

=head1 VERSION 5.32

=over 4

=item B<Date_Init arguments>

The old style Date_Init arguments that were deprecated in version 5.07
have been removed.

=item B<(*) DateManip.cnf change>

Changed .DateManip.cnf to Manip.cnf (to get rid of problems on OS's
that insist on 8.3 filenames) for all non-Unix platforms (Windows, VMS,
Mac).  For all Unix platforms, it's still .DateManip.cnf .  It will only
look in the user's home directory on VMS and Unix.

=back

=head1 VERSION 5.30

=over 4

=item B<(*) Delta format changed>

A week field has been added to the internal format of the delta.  It now
reads "Y:M:W:D:H:MN:S" instead of "Y:M:D:H:MN:S".

=back

=head1 VERSION 5.21

=over 4

=item B<Long running processes may give incorrect time zone>

A process that runs during a time zone change (Daylight Saving Time
specifically) may report the wrong time zone.  See the UpdateCurrTZ variable
for more information.

=item B<UnixDate "%J", "%W", and "%U" formats fixed>

The %J, %W, and %U will no longer report a week 0 or a week 53 if it should
really be week 1 of the following year.  They now report the correct week
number according to ISO 8601.

=back

=head1 VERSION 5.20

=over 4

=item B<(*) ParseDate formats removed (ISO 8601 compatibility)>

Full support for ISO 8601 formats was added.  As a result, some formats
which previously worked may no longer be parsed since they conflict with an
ISO 8601 format.  These include MM-DD-YY (conflicts with YY-MM-DD) and
YYMMDD (conflicts with YYYYMM).  MM/DD/YY still works, so the first form
can be kept easily by changing "-" to "/".  YYMMDD can be changed to
YY-MM-DD before being parsed.  Whenever parsing dates using dashes as
separators, they will be treated as ISO 8601 dates.  You can get around
this by converting all dashes to slashes.

=item B<(*) Week day numbering>

The day numbering was changed from 0-6 (sun-sat) to 1-7 (mon-sun) to be
ISO 8601 compatible.  Weeks start on Monday (though this can be overridden
using the FirstDay config variable) and the 1st week of the year contains
Jan 4 (though it can be forced to contain Jan 1 with the Jan1Week1 config
variable).

=back

=head1 VERSION 5.07

=over 4

=item B<UnixDate "%s" format>

Used to return the number of seconds since 1/1/1970 in the current
time zone.  It now returns the number of seconds since 1/1/1970 GMT.
The "%o" format was added which returns what "%s" previously did.

=item B<(*) Internal format of delta>

The format for the deltas returned by ParseDateDelta changed.  Previously,
each element of a delta had a sign attached to it (+1:+2:+3:+4:+5:+6).  The
new format removes all unnecessary signs by default (+1:2:3:4:5:6).  Also,
because of the way deltas are normalized (see documentation on
ParseDateDelta), at most two signs are included.  For backwards
compatibility, the config variable DeltaSigns was added.  If set to 1, all
deltas include all 6 signs.

=item B<(*) Date_Init arguments>

The format of the Date_Init calling arguments changed.  The
old method

  Date_Init($language,$format,$tz,$convtz);

is still supported , but this support will likely disappear in the future.
Use the new calling format instead:

  Date_Init("var=val","var=val",...);

NOTE:  The old format is no longer supported as of version 5.32 .

=back

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the Date::Manip::Problems documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Date::Manip        - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
