# Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

=pod

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Changes6 - backward incompatible changes in Date::Manip 6.xx

=head1 SYNOPSIS

This describes all backwards incompatible changes made to the
Date::Manip module starting at version 6.00.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

For the most part, Date::Manip has remained backward compatible at
every release, but occasionally, a change is made which is backward
incompatible. These are documented here.  Major changes are marked
with asterisks.

=head1 6.08

=over 4

=item B<Zones specified by offset>

In all operations involving time zones, the time zone must be determined.
By default, it would take all of the information available (date, ISDST,
etc.) and determine the most likely time zone. It would take every time zone
that matched each piece of information, starting with those that matched
in a standard time followed by those that matched in a daylight saving
time.

When zones are specified by an offset, a standard time would always match
since there are standard time zones that match all year long (the military
time zones A-Z and the standard time zones of the form Etc/GMT+01). As a
result, a daylight saving time match would never occur.

Since (if the date falls during a daylight saving time period) you usually
want to use a time zone that has that offset in daylight saving time,
the default is now to check daylight saving time zones first, followed
by standard times.

See the Date::Manip::TZ manual (under the zone method) for more
information.

=back

=head1 6.05

=over 4

=item B<%z format>

In Date::Manip 5.xx, the %z format in UnixDate printed the offset in the
form -0500. In 6.00, I changed that to -05:00:00, but this broke RFC 822
compliance.

I've changed %z back to -0500, and introduced a new format (%N) which
returns -05:00:00.

Incidentally, this is the LAST unused letter, so I am now going to have
to either stop adding formats, or add some extended format syntax. Not
sure yet which, but this may involve a backwards incompatible change in
the future.

=back

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the Date::Manip::Problems documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Date::Manip        - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
