# Copyright (c) 2010-2010 Sullivan Beck. All rights reserved.
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the same terms as Perl itself.

=pod

=head1 NAME

Date::Manip::Status5 - status of Date::Manip 5.xx

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Date::Manip now exists in two versions. The 5.xx releases run on perl
5.6/5.8, but have very limited support for time zones. The 6.xx releases
require 5.10 but have complete support for time zones and have much
greater functionality than the 5.xx releases.

Because the cpan/cpanp tools automatically try to install the most
recent version of a module, they would fail on systems running versions
of perl prior to 5.10. To compensate for this, starting with the
Date-Manip-6.10 distribution, the Date-Manip-6.xx distribution now
includes both the current 5.xx and 6.xx releases, and the correct
version of Date::Manip will be installed automatically. There will
be no additional Date-Manip-5.xx distributions... you must get the
Date-Manip-6.xx distribution for both versions of Date::Manip.

I will continue to offer limited support for the 5.xx releases until
December 2012. At that point, I will reevaluate things and decide
what to do with the 5.xx releases. The most likely outcome is that I
will continue to distribute the final 5.xx release, but will no longer
do any maintenance on it. Alternately, I may choose to offer limited
support for an additional year or more.

Limited support for the 5.xx releases includes the following:

=over 4

=item Bug fixes

As bugs are found, they will be fixed

=item Time zone updates

Timezone information for 5.xx is now automatically generated from the
6.xx time zone list, and every time time zones are updated in 6.xx, the
5.xx release will be similarly updated.

=back

I no longer offer the following support for the 5.xx releases:

=over 5

=item Added functionality

No functionality will be added to 5.xx .

=item Additional time zone requests

Prior to the release of 6.00, time zones were added manually to Date::Manip
upon request. Since time zone information in 5.xx is now automatically
generated, I no longer take requests for time zones.

=back

Feel free to email me concerns and comments.

=head1 BUGS AND QUESTIONS

Please refer to the Date::Manip::Problems documentation for
information on submitting bug reports or questions to the author.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Date::Manip        - main module documentation

=head1 LICENSE

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sullivan Beck (sbeck@cpan.org)

=cut
